Hi, everyone, in this lecture, we are going to update the bricks when the ball hits them.
All right, so what I'm going to do first is I'm going to go to our game loop.
And in here, I'm going to create an update bricks function, I'm going to call and update Brick's function,
which is responsible for removing the bricks whenever the ball hits them.
All right.
And we are going to create that.
Where is our update panel?
So let me just collapse this one.
And this is our update pottle function and right on top of that in here.
I'm just going to copy that comment and put it there, and I'm going to call it out of date Breck's,
so we have a function that is going to be update Breck's Perfect.
So first off, we are going to check for Ball Colation.
Collusion.
All right, so we are going to say for let I call zero and then I is going to be less than the bricks,
the length.
So Breck's.
Dart length.
Breaks the length, all right, and I we are going to incremented by one, so this is going to loop
over the breaks length and then we are going to create another for loop that is going to loop over the
bricks columns.
So we are going to sell a J equal to zero and J is going to be less than the brick columns that we have
and J is going to incremented by one each time.
So J.
Plus plus.
All right.
So what it is that we want to do here, so we want to set the ball to the edge of the brick whenever
it hits that we want to find that position.
So in here we are going to say f the balls y velocity is less than zero.
It means that it is traveling upwards.
Right.
So I'm just going to right in here upwards.
We want to grab the balls y position and we are going to set it to the bricks I and then passing J dot
bottom plus the balls.
Half of the balls height half of.
The ball's it perfect and so this is going to be the upwards, then we will have the down words we need
to take take that into account as well.
So I'm just going to you know what?
I'm going to come down here and I'm going to say downwards.
So that is going to be alse within this hour.
We are going to grab the ball as y position and we are going to set it to basically something like this.
But we are going to say the top minus the balls, half of the balls height, right.
And what I would like to do next is I would like to grab each of the breaks that the ball is going to
hit.
So for that, we are going to say bricks I.
J.
This is going to give us a single brick and we are going to set it to No.
All right, and I think that is it.
I think so, and then I'm going we are going to say break now.
I'm going to say break outr, because whenever this all of this happens, we want to break out of the
not only this for loop, but also the parents for a loop, which is this one.
So this is something that we call a label.
So whenever you label it is going to break out of that as well.
So let's say that let's come here and tiebreaks is null and let's see, it is three sixty nine.
OK, so if I come here, you can see that our ball is gone, so 369 dot tops Brake's IJA, the top minus
that update bricks, we have also called it, right.
Let's go ahead and let's check out what actually the problem is.
I'm just going to enlarge increase this just for if I can.
It is raining, so that's why I cannot do it.
You can see that it is it is basically I can do anything with that.
So there we go.
And I just want to take a look at one of them to see what the problem is so it says cannot access property
top of the null, even though we have specified that.
We know that.
The bricks, they have a top and they have a bottom, right?
So whenever the ball speed is less than zero, we will add that to it.
Oh, we need to check for another as well.
So we need to check if the ball actually intersects with that brick.
So we are going to say if the brick, whichever brick it is that the ball headset J is not actually,
no.
It means that it is not actually like absent.
If it if there isn't any brick, how can we break a brick.
So that's what we are looking for here.
And then we are going to call in the bricks function, the bricks array passant I enjoy for each individual
brick and in here we are going to call in and intersect method which we are going to create.
Don't worry about it, and then everything else is going to go within their so right.
So let me put all of that there.
Let's save it.
So now let's go ahead and let's create this intersect function.
So I'm going to go down to the to this breaks, I'm just going to come in these ones in and below here,
I'm going to say this is going to be our Intersect function.
So I'm going to say this intersect and it is going to be a expression.
So what do we want to do here now, let's say we are going to define for position for four of the sides
of the ball, so we are going to say it ball bottom.
The ball bottom is going to be the balls y position, plus half of the balls height.
So half of the balls height.
Then we are going to sell that ball left.
It is going to be devil's exposition, minus half of the balls with.
Perfect, then we are going to specify the balls, right?
And that is going to be devil's exposition plus half of the balls with.
Perfect, and then we are going to specify the balls top position, which is going to be the balls y
position, minus half of the balls height times zero point five.
And we want this function to return.
What it should return.
It is going to return.
All right.
So it is going to turn this left.
So the left side of the break should be less than the right side of the ball.
So ball.
Right.
Perfect.
And.
The balls left side.
Should be less than the bricks, the bricks right side, so this then this dust, right, and are getting
to the bottom side of the brick.
So Brick, this stuff bottom should be larger than the top side of the wall.
And these are basically y coordinates and coordinates.
And finally, we are going to say that the bottom part of the ball.
Should be bigger than the top part of the break, we just wanted to return this, so we have used this.
This should be Capital T. So we have used all of this in here.
Right.
And the next logical step for us is going to be I'm going to head up to our Breck's, where we draw
them, where we drew them.
So I'm going to head up there.
Where is our draw Breck's function?
There we go.
And in here before actually running that, I want to see that if a brick is not, we do not want to
run anything.
So if the BRAC is null, we do not want to druidry.
So we are just going to continue to the next iteration.
So I would like to do that here as well and.
Ah, right, so I think we are ready to test this, so let's come here and I'm just going to go ahead
and decrease this to maybe right here.
So if I hit the ball, it should break some bricks.
Well, why is it doing that?
It should when it breaks it, it should bounce off of it.
But you can see that it is not bouncing off of that.
So I think there is something missing here, so that's what I'm going to do, is I'm going to go to
our break sort of update bricks, and when it removes or destroys a brick, we want to grab the bones.
Why velocity and change its direction.
So minus by balls, that yv.
So now let's save it.
That's come here.
There we go.
So it creates I'm just going to go for like a few seconds, maybe like 30 seconds, I'm going to hit
I'm going to continue to break like a least a couple of rows.
The reason for that is I want to check if there are any bugs or something.
But this is this could take some time.
So what if we go ahead and if we change the ball speed to point seven, which should be really fast.
There we go.
Now, I hope I can keep up.
I just want to check if there are any issues or any bugs.
If we go to you can see that we have different spins for the ball, even though we we are yet to actually
create that, we have a minimum bounce angle, but we need to make it like really official.
Create a method for that, and I have commented it out, it is inside your code, but it is commented
out and maybe we are going to do that next.
So let's just try to destroy some bricks.
Perfect, so so far, row one and row two, level one and level two, they were perfectly fine.
I'm just going to keep on, like for a few more rose or a few more times, I'm just going to go ahead
and.
And it is a good it is a good idea to always test your code for all the possible outcomes, because
you need to know what the how exactly your game or your application is going to react in different circumstances.
So there is no surprises when when that application is ready for production, you need to test it for
all the possibilities and all the bugs that it might have.
OK, so it seems to be working perfectly fine.
There we go.
There it is.
So go up.
So that was a good run.
So if I can get it up there on top of those reds, then that is going to break all of them.
But this is random, so it's not really in my control.
I cannot control it.
If it did it on its own, then then that's good.
Otherwise, I'm not sure if I can get it up there.
Because that the bossman is random.
So you can see that I think we are we can safely say that it is working fine.
And there shouldn't be any issues here, so let me just.
Oh, there we go, huh?
There we go.
No, it didn't win there anyways.
I think the issue is the issue is solved.
And what was the speed?
It was four or five.
I'm just going to set it to that.
And.
All right, so what I would like to do is now I want to take care of that spin that we have for a revolt,
right.
So first off, what I would like to do is I want to go to the ball function, so let's clops this one.
So the navigation is going to be easier for us and.
OK, so let's come down its clops this one, and let's update bricks, so you should go to our update
ball function.
And from here, I'm just going to comment in all this.
So we have a spin.
Whenever whenever the ball is less than the wall, whenever the ball is moving left, when the ball
is moving right, or when the ball is moving towards the top.
And then let's see if we have any any else in here.
So this is going to be the top.
No, we don't have any other spin ball here other than I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to add a
spin ball to if balls position is we want to we want it to be whenever it bounces off the paddle, we
want that spin ball as well.
We want the ball to spin.
So I'm going to call that function here as well and.
I think we are going to be we are done here, so why don't we have to do as the next thing that I would
like to create is going to be our spinnable function.
So where is our said dimensions to right beneath there?
I would like to create that function here.
And this is called spin ball.
And basically what it does is whenever the ball hits any surface, be that the paddle, the wall or
the brick, it should spin at a certain angle.
Right.
So let us first off create our function.
All right, and we're going to sell it upwards, it's going to be equal to whenever the buys started,
the bulls, why velocity is less than zero.
It means that the ball is traveling, traveling upwards.
And what I would like to do here is if I come to my updatable function, we have a angle and angle that
that is going to grab the negative y velocity and the balls, what x velocity.
And we it is going to give us the exposition.
Then we have our angle, which is going to be math at random times, math that pi divided by two minus
all that multiplied by the ball spin.
So what I would like to do is I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to cut these from here because we
have a spin ball.
So we we really do not need that.
I'm just going to I'm going to cut them with this with their comments.
So I'm going to paste them right here.
I'm going to save it.
And because we won the spin ball to actually work whenever we hit any brick, we are going to go into
our I'm just going to copy that function call inside our update bricks in here.
I'm going to be calling the spin ball function as well.
So we just called it there.
And what this is going to do as this is going to be responsible, this function for keeping the angle
between two limits.
Right.
So for Ed to do that is.
We are going to we did something like this, if you remember, and that was inside our Bowlsby, we
were keeping the angle, the angle between two elements and all that.
We did all of this.
But now all of this has to be done inside our spin ball.
So I'm just going to grab everything.
I'm going to cut it from here and I'm going to come to our spin ball function.
And down below, I'm going to paste everything and I'm going to save it, so they rearrange themselves,
right.
And we have I just want to go to top and see we do have our minimum bounce and go and I'm going to bring
it down.
Right.
And this is going to be 30.
So this is going to be the minimum bounce angle from the horizontal in degrees.
Right.
So.
The next thing that I would like to do, as I would like to modify this statement that we have here
and what I want to do is I want to create an upward variable rate, which we have done here.
And after that that we have created, I want to use it inside an if statement.
Right.
And the if statement.
Now, you can see that this is almost hardcoded.
I do not want a hard code this because we do have a minimum bounce angle as well.
Right.
And where is our let me just search for it.
So it is in bounds angle.
There it is.
So inside our serve ball we have our minimum bounce angle.
And here as well.
So what we are going to do is we are going to use the minimum bounce angle from here inside our spin
ball function.
So where is the ball function?
OK, that as the apply speed, this is disserve ball, this is the spin ball, and at the end I'm just
going to go ahead and I'm going to call the appli ball speed and I'm going to pass and the angle.
And you can see that the serve the ball speed is called here as well.
And the angle is passed as well here.
So what I what I would like to do is let's come into this spin ball and I'm going to comment everything
out.
I could delete it.
So I think that is better.
So I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to delete everything and I'm going to say let the minimum
bounce angle be equal to the minimum bounce angle that we have.
Minimum bounce.
Minimum bounce angle that we have divided by 180 degrees and then multiply by.
Multiply it by the math, that pie to get radiance, all right, and then we are going to say if if
the if the ball is moving upwards.
All right, what do we want to do?
We want to check for if the angle is less than the minimum bounce angle, so if the angle is less than
the minimum bounce angle.
So basically we want to check if the angle is less than the minimum single, it means that it is less
than 30.
We want to keep it at 30 if it is greater than minimum bounce angle.
We want to make sure it is not greater than 150.
So we're going to grab the angle and we are going to set it to minimum bounce angle and al-Assaf.
According going to Angle, if angle is greater than the math dot pi, which is going to give us one
hundred and eighty minus minimum, minimum balance angle, which is going to be 30, we want to keep
the angle at that, at that limit, which is going to be 150.
And for our final condition, we are going to say else, if angle if angle is greater than negative,
oops, else not in here, what I'm going to do is I'm going to create another if statement and I'm going
to say if angle is greater than the negative minimum bounce angle.
We want to keep the angle, and that's how basically it is going to be this right here, just swap it
with a with inequality and then we're going to say Ancef.
Why do I keep doing that, al-Assaf the angle we need to account for the negative angles as well matha
dot pi.
Now that is mine.
So this is going to be plus minimum bounce angle.
Then what do we want to do?
We want to do this, we want to keep it at that 150 limit.
Be that positive 150 or negative 150.
Yeah, save it.
So I'm going to, I'm going to keep playing so you can see that we have our minimum.
Oops, I lost it there.
So you can see that we have our angle, oops, oh, that was not something you can see it is not coming
down.
It should come down.
Now, it came down that was something bizarre.
So what is the problem here?
It says reference error angle is not defined at 360.
So if we go to 360.
Angle is not defined here and OK, so let me remove this from here.
OK, so let's check it one more time.
Let's see.
Mm hmm.
So it seems to be bouncing back a lot so you can see so there we go.
And there is still something missing here.
When it hits the the the wall, it should go into in the negative direction.
And the angle is it's it's very, very big.
It is not is not what we want here.
I'm thinking that the problem should be with the way that we have handled this here and so we have if
the ball is moving our force, so this is going to be our main condition.
Right.
And the when the ball when the angle is minus bounce angle, it means that the ball is no longer moving
upwards.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to cut all of that.
I'm going to cut because this condition is going to end right here.
This is the F Closs and the other one is going to be the alse Closs.
So in the LS, what we have is we basically have the same thing, but we are going to change the signs
for that.
So if the angle is less than the minus, we are going to set it to minus if if the angle is greater
than the.
So in this case, it is going to be if the minimum if the angle is greater than the minus minimum bounce
angle, we are going to set it to that because we don't want it to go smaller.
Right.
And if the angle is less than the math that pi now we are going to multiply this entire thing by plus.
So that is going to be plus and this is going to be minus.
So if math that pi if the angle is less than this, we are going to set it equal to this.
So let me put it right here and then we are going to call in our appli ball speed and we're going to
pass and the angle that we have.
So let me check this out.
So there we go.
You can see you saw the spin out of the of the paddle.
There is another spin.
And that was the spin from the brick.
See, this is the spin, right?
So.
And this was the spin from the wall, so all of them, they are spinning correctly.
She and now you should.
Take a look at this and there we go.
So what are we going to do as I'm just going to play the final version once?
All right, seems to be working correctly, but our version spin seems to be a bit larger than the spin
that that we have for the final version, right.
So this version is I think the spin is larger.
I don't know why that is.
Maybe like the ball spin is greater, C, C that this is really large.
So let's go to top.
And what what I want to do is I want to check the the ball spin so our o the ball spin is, you know,
we set it to this but we did not reduce it.
So the ball spin should be zero point two and I just put it to zero point to now.
It shouldn't be like that extreme of a spin.
So we should see, we should still see some spin, but not that extreme amount that we saw previously.
Right, so.
I'm not seeing.
There we go.
That was one spin from the panel.
And that's another spin from the break from the brick.
So both of them work.
Let's take a look at a spin from the wall.
That's another one.
There we go, that's another one from the brick, the wall should also spin the ball a little.
So, uh huh.
Even we saw that in our previous condition.
So what I'm going to do, I'm not going to go ahead and waste more time with that.
You can go ahead and you can play around with it.
Right.
And we are done with the with this part.
The next part that we will be doing is we will handle scores and lives and we will also print them.
So there is one more thing that before forgetting, I have to show you that collapse these functions.
Where is our new game function?
New game function right here.
So you see that we have set the level to one.
If you set the level to two, this is what you're going to get.
So you can see that we have more rows here.
If you set it to three, you're going to get.
Save it.
You are going to get more gross and finally, if you set it to turn, this is the amount that you're
going to get and this is going to be the maximum level.
So if you start breaking, this is when you get to level 10, it is going to be really difficult for
you to navigate and also really challenging.
That's why it's level 10.
So you how you will have to work like this and what are going to do eventually is we want this levels,
these levels to show automatically.
And what I wanted to show you here, as you can see, that we have red and down below we have green
and have this color is gradually changing from red to orange to yellow to light green and then to perfect
green.
I just wanted to show you this, and I'm going to set it back to zero, which is going to be our first
level all the way to ten level.
So that's it.
See you guys in the next lecture.